[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LILOU: Hello, my
delicious co-creators.
Lilou, I'm on the road.
On the road.
Always on the road there's
so many beautiful people
to speak to and discover.
It's such a delight to be
sitting next to you, Pierre,
today.
Really, very, very much so.
I feel already
this is going to be
an amazing, beautiful
conversation from the heart.
Thank you for being you.
>>PIERRE PRADERVAND:
Thank you, Lilou
for inviting me to
do this with you.
I knew before meeting
you that we're
going to have a
fantastic contact.
And it just happened the
second we saw each other.
So it's great to be doing
an interview with someone
with whom one feels quite
on the same wavelength.
>>LILOU: You have been
traveling the world,
and did so many things in your
life, and wrote many books.
Over 15 books, is that right?
You're passionate
about human beings.
How would you describe
even your work?
>>PRADERVAND: Oh, I would say
that-- if I had to summarize,
the whole aim of
my life is working
towards a world
that works for all.
I mean that is the goal of my
life at the present moment.
A world that works for all.
And that implies, of course,
huge changes in so many areas,
and especially on
the spiritual level.
I think ultimately,
the whole goal,
the whole aim of humankind is
towards greater and greater
spiritualization of
everything-- of activities,
of our way of being, thinking.
Everything.
>>LILOU: Going beyond
the material world.
>>PRADERVAND: Yes.
I think the real reality is
of a purely spiritual nature.
I've been a spiritual
seeker for over 40 years,
and I've had, what
one might call,
about 40 mystical experiences.
And some of them were so
powerful that I cannot doubt
a second that there's another
reality beyond the appearances
of everyday.
I could, for instance,
share one I shared--
>>LILOU: Yeah, please.
And I definitely want
to get into that world.
Oh, yes.
>>PRADERVAND: The one I shared
in our French interview,
if you don't mind, because it's
the most powerful experience
in my whole life.
I've lived 11 years
in Africa, and I
was on the board of,
what was in the '90s,
the largest peasant farmer
organization in Africa,
based in Burkina Faso.
And I was attending a board
meeting of this organization.
And the last day-- I was
living then in Switzerland.
The last day I caught
dysentery, which it's not
dangerous at the beginning,
but it's a great nuisance
because you have to run
to the loo the whole time.
And I did my spiritual
work, because for 40 years
I healed myself solely
by spiritual means.
And I thought that
everything was cleared up.
And the next morning
when I went to airport,
it started all over again.
And on the plane I was working
with my spiritual text,
my affirmations, my mantras,
meditating, praying.
Doing all the right things.
Nothing happened.
And I was sitting next to
a little boy, unaccompanied
little boy with
this little board
with his name, phone
and everything.
And the stewardess taking care
of him was so loving, so sweet,
as if you were his mother.
And at one moment she
came to speak to him
with special tenderness,
and suddenly I
felt this incredible influx of
gratitude towards this woman.
And just as suddenly,
this gratitude
was transformed into feeling.
I mean a feeling of cosmic love.
And I was suddenly outside
the plane, outside of time,
in a space out there.
And the only sense I had
of anything was love.
I felt this love as the
only cause, the only means,
the only end, the
only substance,
the only everything
of the universe.
And I no other consciousness,
but that of love.
And the most wonderful thing.
Any sense of existing
as Pierre Pradervand
had totally disappeared.
It was an egoless state.
And the divine consciousness
was my consciousness.
That's why it was the most
powerful experience in my life,
because I no longer
had any sense of ego.
And suddenly, I came back into
the plane, back into time,
and I felt something
adjusting in my bowels,
and in a matter of
seconds, the dysentery
had completely vanished.
And, of course, the
power of the experience
was not the
healing-- the healing
was a nice secondary effect.
But the power was
this sense that love
is the ultimate ground of being.
I love Paul
Tillich's expression,
"the ground of being--"
something very solid,
very firm.
Paul Tillich was one of the
great writers who inspired me
when I was a
journalist in my 20s,
and I always acknowledge
my debt towards him.
>>LILOU: What do you
think provoked that?
Did you try to really
analyze this moment
when you lived that situation?
Was that the suffering was
at this moment of gratitude?
I mean would you try
on a regular basis
to relive those experiences?
>>PRADERVAND: These
experiences, when
you study the lives
of spiritual seekers,
are pure moments of grace.
You cannot concoct them.
You cannot say I'm going to
prepare myself by three hours
of meditation and then I will
receive a great revelation.
No.
It is total grace.
But what opened me up
to grace was gratitude.
It is impossible to
feel gratitude and have,
at the same time, any
negativity in your mind.
Try it.
It's impossible.
Gratitude eliminates
automatically.
And that's why I read magazines
on spiritually healing,
and there are
constantly healings
which have come
through gratitude.
>>LILOU: You were in the
space, so you describe it
as cosmic love, this
place where you were?
Tell us more because
this quite divine.
I hear people having near
death experience also go
through this place, huh?
>>PRADERVAND: Well, there
really aren't any words
from the normal
language because it
is in a completely
different space, where
words, even thinking
is totally unnecessary.
That is something
that I've just started
discovering, in part thanks
to Joel Goldsmith who's
I think a respected spiritual
thinker in the states,
that when you are on that level
of a divine transcendence,
thinking automatically stops.
The brain, the mind function,
rational, Cartesian function
disappears
completely, and one is
on the level of pure feeling.
Not emotion.
Feeling, which is something
much more deep, much deeper.
>>LILOU: And it's like we're
all connected, this infinite?
Like there's all knowing,
all love, all connection?
Because we have those
moments, not quite as maybe
perfect and pure, but
we have those moments
when we look at nature,
when we look at a child.
>>PRADERVAND: Yeah.
I think many people have
little glimpses of this,
little flashes of
this in everyday life.
It can be on the bus just
feeling compassion for someone.
It can be the song of a child,
or a music you hear suddenly.
There's so many ways this grace
operates in people's lives.
Thank God, you don't
have to be a great mystic
to have these little
intuitions of something
else, of another level,
of another reality
behind the material appearance.
>>LILOU: Is that
what's behind a veil?
Or does it get really
thinner and thinner?
And how do you live right
now, because you speak,
you're all about living, I
would say, vivre autrement.
>>PRADERVAND: Yes.
>>LILOU: Living differently.
>>PRADERVAND:
Living differently.
I like the image you
used of the veil,
because it's an
image that is used
by many mystics and
spiritual thinkers.
That we live in a world
which is somewhere,
has nothing to do
with real reality.
Real reality is behind the veil.
And this real reality is
totally harmonious and whole
and joyful and perfect
and infinite love.
So what I've been doing
for the past 50 years,
exactly, this year-- I started
working 50 years ago-- what
I've been doing, at least
consciously for the past 30
years, is working towards
a world that works for all.
Because either we build a
world that works for all,
or soon it will work for nobody.
Even I saw it recently
on internet TV
of one of the 85 richest
men on the planet.
Oxfam, the British
organization, calculated
for the famous meeting
they have in Davos of world
deciders every winter.
They calculated that 85
people, men, on this planet
have wealth equivalent to
that of half the world's
population-- 3.5 billion people.
And this was the interview
of one of the 85 richest men.
And the woman interviewing
him said, "Well,
how do you react to this
idea, to this fact--
you and your friends."
And he said, "Oh, I thought
that was absolutely wonderful.
It proves that you just have to
pull your socks up and decide
to work for it."
And she said, "But
in the shantytowns
they don't have any
socks to pull up."
And I felt great
compassion for this man,
because he's so in a
world of total artifact.
I mean can you think
you have, I don't
know how many
billions of billions
of, maybe hundreds of
billions of dollars, he has.
And he's still
trying to get more.
He's passing aside from life.
I can't imagine
he's really living
if his only aim is
accumulating more.
Where is beauty?
Where is poetry?
Where are warm,
loving relationships?
So I feel great compassion
for someone like that.
So to come back to
my basic thrust,
creating a world
that works for all,
I think it is one aim
that could ultimately
unite all of humanity.
We've, for so many
centuries, looked
for goals that
could unite people.
Religions have
attempted to do this.
At the same time,
they've divided
people more than
maybe anything else.
So we have to find
a common ground,
and for me a world that
works for all could
be common ground where
absolutely everyone agrees
upon the aim.
It's been my privilege to travel
or work or do research or live
in over 40 countries
of the five continents.
>>LILOU: Now you
are in Switzerland,
but that wasn't always the case.
>>PRADERVAND: No.
And I really think
it's been my privilege
to talk to so many people
of so many different kinds
of backgrounds, from
prostitutes, to presidents.
And I think that is one
idea that could really
enable the whole of
humanity to pull together
to work towards a world
that works for all.
There would be quite
a, I think, opposition
from some economic powers,
because the inequality seems
to advantage a small handful
of the world's population.
But that's just the seeming.
I really believe that this
is the most pressing agenda
for the world today.
Because, again, as
I said a moment ago,
if we don't create
a world that works
for all, well, one of these
days, it'll work for nobody.
And I'm thinking of possible
major financial crisis,
economic challenges,
ecological-- huge ecological
challenges if we don't
rapidly change our lifestyles.
>>LILOU: If you had the
President of the United States,
for example, in
front of you and you
wanted to convey that
message or like a shift maybe
in the population, or
something that will really
switch his mind and start
to really support America
and the rest of the world
in a different way, what
conversation would you
have with him really?
>>PRADERVAND: Well,
that's a really tough one.
First, I--
>>LILOU: But on the
human being side.
>>PRADERVAND: First,
I-- Barack Obama,
and I wouldn't want
to be in his shoes.
I pray for him very, very often.
I've admired him from the
very first day he took office.
And I think he came into an
extremely difficult situation.
But to be honest, I don't
think he's pulling the strings,
really.
I think there are
powers in the shade,
be they political or
economic, especially,
who are really
pulling the strings.
But I would tell him--
he's a good communicator,
and I think he could maybe
try to communicate this idea.
This is what I would say to any
president in the world today.
Put this as a number one aim
of your country's policies,
be it nationally
or internationally.
That's my key
message, if you want.
>>LILOU: And at the
core, how do you
convey this to a large public?
Like if you wanted
to say that, how
do you get people from this
pessimism and this way of being
in the, seeing themselves in a
crisis and this material world,
to opening up to seeing
that we're really all there,
all together, and there
is another reality?
How do you do this, this jump?
>>PRADERVAND: Well, I think
you are doing part of it.
I think communication is one
of the most important things
in the world today.
And internet has completely,
and I mean completely
transformed world history.
It's difficult to see this
in a historical perspective,
but I'm quite sure that in a
few decades, not to mention
centuries, when people
analyze our time,
they will say "before
and after internet."
And all those who are working
to communicate new ideas, ideas
of hope, and optimism,
and goodness,
like you do the
whole time, Lilou,
are creating this world
that works for all.
That's why positive
communications is so essential.
I functioned as a
journalist in Africa,
and I had the
experience that you
can create another
kind of journalism.
Normally speaking,
journalists, it
is believed that the
popular press has--
to have the three S's
to thrive-- sports, sex
and scandal.
And I believe you can create
something completely different.
And with an outstanding
African woman,
we created a magazine in
French-speaking Africa, which
in three years became the
bestselling international
magazine without
sport, sex or scandal.
For instance, we were the
first magazine in Africa
to, in the whole of Africa, to
mention female circumcision.
The first one to, in
French-speaking Africa,
to speak of family planning,
sex education, the environment,
and other topics.
So it is possible, but there
has to be a vision and a will.
>>LILOU: Tell us about
those big yeses in life,
to really say yeses.
Tell us about that
moment that you
had where you really
had to switch there.
>>PRADERVAND: Well, I'd start
by saying that Dr. David
Hawkins, who recently
passed on, for me
was one of the great, great
seers of the United States
in the second part
of the last century.
I really revere this man
who was a non-dualist
in his vision of spirituality.
And he wrote that yes is
the most powerful word
in the English language.
Now, he said the
English language.
I think you can say that
of language in general.
And I discovered this in
a very special experience,
and I wrote a whole book
on just the power of yes.
I, at one moment
in my life, I was
living in one of the most
beautiful spots in Switzerland,
a little mountain above
the City of Vevey.
I had a lovely
balcony overlooking
the lake, the Alps, forest to
do my jogging just next by.
I mean it was absolute
complete paradise.
And I moved at one moment
into the center of Geneva
onto one of the most
polluted and noisy streets
in the whole city.
And doing my jogging there in
winter wasn't very pleasant.
So I purchased one of
these machines which
imitates cross
country skiing, and it
came with a whole lot
of little brochures,
including one on
medical things saying
make a check-up of
your heart if you
fear you might
have any problems.
So I just threw that
into the waste basket,
and threw myself
into my exercise
with my usual enthusiasm.
And after two or three
weeks, I suddenly
started to have very
acute chest pains,
waking up in the middle of the
night with difficulty breathing
and feeling of anguish.
And complete loss of energy.
Just getting up from an
armchair was a major effort.
In our family, we had a family
history of angina pectoris,
and this is typical symptoms
of this problem, which
is, you know,
serious, medically.
And for three days I
just dragged myself
across the apartment.
And one day I was
sitting in an armchair,
and we had a beautiful view
over Lake Geneva and the Alps
beyond.
And suddenly, something in
the depths of my being, and I
can't give it a word,
a term to describe it,
just something in
me propelled me up,
and I stood for four or five
minutes with arms outstretched
just saying yes, yes, yes
to everything in my life.
Yes.
And I was
instantaneously healed.
And I mean instantaneously.
I resumed my cross
country skiing
on this machine
immediately, but especially
for at least a
year or two, when I
walked in the streets,
every second step I
would say yes, yes, yes.
It had become so powerful.
And that's what propelled
me to write a whole book
on the power of saying yes.
>>LILOU: Yeah, yeah.
And does yes-- and we mentioned
that in the French interview,
but I think it's
important to say it;
those no's can be yeses.
Sometimes it is important
from self respect, self love,
and all that, to say no, also.
>>PRADERVAND: I quite agree.
I think that in the
field, for instance,
of when you are faced with a
major social injustice or even
a personal one, you have
to say no, of course.
But that no is a yes
to a hidden value.
Your no to grave injustice,
social injustice,
is a yes to the value
of justice and equality.
A no to demand the totally
unreasonable, unconscionable
demand put upon you by maybe
a family member or anyone,
or your boss, who knows, is
a yes to your own dignity
and sense of who you are.
So of course you have
to say no, but a real no
is always a yes
to something else.
>>LILOU: Hmm.
I would love you to speak
of the art of blessing--
there's a gentle
word in there, huh?
Why so?
What is that, and what's the
impact, and how does it work?
>>PRADERVAND: Well,
as you say it's
called the gentle
art of blessing.
It happened to me-- let me
explain a bit how it happened.
I was working for
a group of NGOs,
nongovernmental organizations.
That was 30 years ago, over
30 years ago in Switzerland.
And I was so totally
dedicated to my work.
I even had a camp
bed in my office.
And I'd often, if I'll miss
the last train to go home,
I would sleep there.
And I wanted to create a roving
exhibit on hunger for schools,
and there was no
money in the budget.
And I invested what today
would be at least $25,000
of my own pocket because there
was no money in the budget.
And this had never
happened in the history
of these organizations.
And the exhibit was very well
accepted, it was acclaimed,
spoke about it in the press.
And so I was really utterly
dedicated to my work.
And at the same time I
joined a world campaign which
started in the United States
called The Hunger Project--
>>LILOU: Yeah.
>>PRADERVAND: --which has the
aim the elimination of hunger.
And the slogan of
The Hunger Project
was "the end of hunger
by the year 2000."
Which if they had really
been real political will
on the world level,
would have been possible
in the early '80s.
And the organizations I worked
for just tested this campaign,
I don't know for-- and
they explained why,
but they forbid me to
speak it, mention it
in my work in schools.
And I was very sad because
it had a tremendous power
of mobilization on young people.
But I obeyed because
they were my employers.
But I did continue using the
slogan, "the end of hunger
by the year 2000," because I
had close contact with peasant
organizations in Africa which
had that very same slogan.
So I thought if it's good
enough for peasant farmers,
well, I can use it in
my work in schools.
And one day I was
convened to a meeting,
and this meeting was totally
abnormal, and, in fact,
it was organized by one fellow
in these organizations who
wanted my head.
He just couldn't put up with me.
I don't know why.
And the meeting was convened,
and I was facing this tribunal.
There were no notes
taken whatsoever.
It was completely,
in terms of it,
mystery procedures,
completely illegal.
And I was told
that either I stop
saying one can put an end
to hunger by the year 2000,
just because The Hunger Project
said that, has the same slogan,
or I quit my job.
And I was just dumbfounded.
I'd never been faced in
such a situation in my life
where I had to choose between
my work and my conscience.
So, of course, I said,
no to their demand,
which was a yes to my integrity.
And I quit my job.
But I developed, in
the following weeks,
the most incredible resentment
towards these people.
It was eating me
up night and day.
I'd wake in the
morning, start showering
I was thinking about
it, going to the office.
What psychologists
call an obsession.
It had become a pure obsession.
And I was doing all my
right spiritual disciplines
to get rid of it,
reading sacred text,
repeating mantras,
praying, meditating.
Nothing.
Nothing happened.
And I was getting desperate.
And one day reading the
Sermon on the Mount,
"Bless those who curse you."
Ah, well of course!
It was so evidently the reply.
And on the spot, I started
blessing these people
in their health, in their
joy, in their finances,
in their family life, in
their deepest yearnings.
In every conceivable way.
At first it was in
the head to obey
what I thought was
a revealed command,
but then it went down
very rapidly to the heart,
because blessing is
100% heart energy.
I insist on this.
And suddenly, a
few weeks later, I
started blessing people in the
street, at the post office,
at the supermarket.
I used to take
trains quite often.
I used to go the whole
length of the train
both ways just to
be sure to bless
every person on that train.
And I'd been asked
to give a talk
to an international
meeting of-- youth meeting
in Zurich-- this was in '87,
by the way-- on the theme,
healing the world.
And I was preparing
my talk, writing it.
And suddenly I received
a gust of inspiration.
And I was literally like
a scribe under orders.
My pen could hardly
follow the ideas
that were pouring into me.
And I wrote this
one page text called
"The Gentle Art of Blessing."
And I started sharing
it in my correspondence,
including with a man called
Dr. Gerald Jampolsky, who's
an old friend, who
was one of the fathers
of the self-development
movement in the United States.
He wrote that incredible
international bestseller,
Love Is Letting Go of Fear.
And I sent the text
to Jerry, and he
started sharing it in his
worldwide correspondence.
And I started, in the months
and the years to come,
receiving letters from
people all over the world,
and it continues now with
internet 25 years later,
something like that.
People just telling me it works.
It works.
And it is so simple.
Even children can do it.
One of my favorite stories
was I received this email
from a woman who read
one of my articles
in "Cygnus" magazine, which
is put out by Cygnus Books.
It's a superb little magazine
on books published in England.
And I had wrote about the
gentle art of blessing.
She said look, I am a
mother of two children,
and I was pregnant
with a third child.
And I was having
health challenges,
and at times I was
getting very short
tempered with my two children.
And I was very upset about
this, but I just sometimes
just blew up.
And I read your article,
and I went into my room
and just took a few
moments to myself,
something I rarely
was able to do.
And I heard my young
boy, three-year-old,
calling to me from the garden.
And I went out and
he ran up to me.
He threw his arms around my
legs, looked up into my face
and said, "Mommy, I bless you."
And I had never pronounced the
word blessing in front of him,
she said.
And I have amazing stories.
I think of this
friend in Africa who's
a devout Muslim,
very devout Muslim.
And who took on to this
blessing thing so immediately.
It was just wonderful.
And he shared with me
just amazing stories.
He had, I think, one
story of this polygamous
woman he meets in
the streets in Mali
and other countries of
the area, with a very
strong Muslim population.
Mali must be at least
95% Muslim or 90%.
Men very often take a second
or even third or fourth
wife, after a certain
number of years.
And this man was in his 50s and
he had a wife who was aging.
Excuse me.
[COUGH] A wife who was getting
on in years, and certainly
wasn't as sexy as when he
married her 30 years earlier.
So he just married a young
20-year-old or 22-year-old lady
who was, of course, much more
fun for him, quote, unquote,
"fun."
And he had started insulting
his wife, beating her.
And the young wife was
doing the same thing,
being very rude with her
co-wife, whereas she should
have respected her for her age.
And this woman was
absolutely desperate.
And she met my friend
Mamado in the street
and poured out her
tale of woe to Mamado.
And who said, "Look,
Fatima, all you have to do
is just bless him.
This is how you go about
it," and he explained to her
briefly.
And in Africa,
people who are not
part of the
westernized elite are
extraordinarily
receptive to new ideas.
So receptive, because they
don't have their minds totally
cluttered up with all
the stuff we have.
And she went home that evening
and she started sincerely
and honesty blessing her
husband and her co-spouse.
The next morning the
husband came to her
and apologized for
the behavior he'd had.
Promised her not to start.
Started respecting her
and treating her like he
had always done.
And the co-spouse also
changed completely.
And now the two women are
given as examples of harmony
in a polygamous marriage in
the whole section of that city.
>>LILOU: There's no
forgiveness there,
or does it instantly happen?
>>PRADERVAND: Well,
I think the woman
didn't feel the need to forgive.
She just wanted to be
rid of this harassment.
>>LILOU: Free.
>>PRADERVAND: Be freed
of this harassment.
And so she had such a
trust in my friend, who's
a very respected person in
that small town called Mopti
that she just went ahead
and the miracle happened.
Again, you don't
explain miracles.
They are movements of grace.
But the movements of grace, no
one can foretell or explain.
>>LILOU: Intentions
are very powerful if we
say at the beginning
of the day, I
would love to
experience miracles
or I'm living miracles.
All of a sudden we
kind of witness them.
How come?
>>PRADERVAND: You pronounced
a word, intention.
That brings up to me one of
the most powerful stories
I could share with the viewers.
I had a very dear
friend in London
who was called Doris Henti,
and she was Christian science
practitioner.
She was born in a suburban,
rich suburban area of London
in the late 1800s.
And her mother suffered
from chronic depression.
Her brother had-- I don't
remember what he had,
but he was constantly ill.
And she had a disease of
the bones of the skull.
And her whole face and skull
were completely distorted.
She had one eye
higher than the other.
A nose completely askew.
And her mouth distorted
because of the distorted--
>>LILOU: Chin?
>>PRADERVAND: And
her mother discovered
this book called Science
and Health with Key
to the Scriptures, which has
healed thousands of people
around the globe
just by reading it.
And she started reading it
and she was instantaneously
healed of her depression.
And the son was healed.
And the progression of
Doris's disease stopped.
She stopped progression.
She'd had at least
12 operations,
she told me, before that.
And so the whole family
started studying this book.
And one day she read in a local
newspaper, a London newspaper,
that a cousin of hers
had won a beauty contest.
Now, I can imagine
that in the late 1800s,
they weren't in bikinis, OK?
They were probably in crinolines
right down to the ankles.
But still she won the
first beauty contest.
And Doris told me
the story directly,
like you are speaking to me.
Doris thought, well, I'm never
going to win a beauty contest.
But I would like to express
the beauty of holiness.
There's a verse
in the song which
is repeated three
times about expressing
the beauty of holiness.
And I would like to remember,
viewers, that holiness,
wholeness and health
are the same root.
They mean the same thing.
Ultimately, it means a
state of complete wholeness,
a balanced harmony
and wholeness.
She went into her room,
and that was her intention.
The whole day she held
firm to that intention.
I wish to express the
beauty of holiness.
The whole day she just
held onto that one idea.
When she came down
that night for dinner,
the whole bone structure of
her head had adjusted itself.
I know that's just incredible.
And this story is told in a book
of her association addresses,
so people can find
it in writing.
But I find that to illustrate.
Wayne Dyer who's one
of the great gurus
of the American personal
development scene, whom
I respect greatly has
written a whole book
on the power of intention.
It is one of the most
powerful forces in the world.
>>LILOU: And again, this is
happening behind the veil.
There is something there
behind in the unseen world
that is, as soon as
we're connecting,
as soon as we're setting an
intention, it's bridging?
Can we say we receive the help.
As soon as we ask for help from
life, too, from the cosmos,
from the universe, from God,
there is-- something happens.
Why?
I mean this is quite incredible.
I know scientists
invited on Gaiam,
everything explained
all this scientifically.
But for us to express
that and to see it
and to witness it in our daily
life is of pure beauty, huh?
>>PRADERVAND: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
And I've had so many experiences
myself of this invisible power
acting in one's life for good.
Again, I've had 40
years I healed myself
with this purely
spiritual approach taught
by this book,
Science and Health.
And now I'm reading
Joel Goldsmith
who's a well-known metaphysician
in the United States
who is in the same frame of
mind of positing that there's
another reality behind
the material veil, which
is the ultimate reality
of the universe.
>>LILOU: So our relationship
to time, money, all of that
is really an illusion
could we say?
>>PRADERVAND: Well, I think
material life, as we live it
today, however real
it may appear is,
compared to the other level
of reality, totally illusory.
Many of the great
mystics and saints
speak of the veil that hides
from our view, the real world.
The real world, being
the world of the spirit.
>>LILOU: Did you have sometimes
visions or the occasion
to live some things or
see it, or do you feel it?
What is your experience of it?
>>PRADERVAND: Well, I
think it has to be felt.
I shared this one experience I
had of this experience of love,
which for me is the
clearest message
I received on the reality of
another level of existence,
another level of reality
beyond the screen.
And I've had maybe 40
experiences during my life
that you might call,
quote, "mystical,"
in the sense that
they refer, again.
But it's always on
the level of feeling.
I want to insist on that.
And Joel Goldsmith
in his writings
also insists a great
deal on the fact
that this true reality is beyond
the level of the mind stuff.
The mind has to stop
its little bicycle
and constantly churring, and you
have to go down into the heart
and listen.
Listening is the first step.
And when you've got into a
deep enough level of science
then you can start hearing
another message, another voice,
and feeling, feeling the
existence of another world.
>>LILOU: I know when I had the
opportunity to interview Wayne
Dyer, with Ram Dass
as well in Maui.
During that interview
he's in a wheelchair,
and he was saying that
this is a blessing.
And you really have in front of
you a human being that feels it
and that means it is you
get that this is really
a blessing for him.
And when he says, "I
am loving awareness,
I am loving awareness."
And when we drop into
this loving awareness,
it's like the experience
alters, like a human
being can bring another.
I guess in your workshops
and in your talks,
people get into this
space, but sometimes might
be a little bit harder to live
it on a regular basis for them.
But that is a glimpse.
It's like a seed that
is planted maybe?
>>PRADERVAND: Last weekend I
had a workshop on forgiveness.
It was something happened
I never experienced before
in 22 years of
running workshops.
I'd just shared with
the participants
my favorite prayer.
It's a little prayer
I made up for myself.
"Shine as me, and may I be so
thee that all those I encounter
experience me, as
thy radiant presence,
thy unconditional
love and forgiveness.
May they no longer see
me, but only, only thee."
And I just shared
this with the group,
and told them that this was
my ultimate spiritual goal.
And there was one
woman in the group
who had suffered all
kinds of abuse as a child,
as a young woman.
And she was in
great, great pain.
And suddenly my
little voice said,
bring her in to the
middle of the room.
And we formed a
circle around her,
and we all put our hands on her.
And then for 20 minutes,
grace took over.
I don't even
remember what I said,
but it was just so amazing.
And everyone felt
what was happening.
That was the amazing thing.
Everyone was into that energy.
And it was an
awesome experience.
So when we listen,
when we manage
to put aside a little
ego a little bit,
then these things
can be manifested.
>>LILOU: Is there a last thing
you want to leave us with,
something important to mention
within this conversation
about this other way of
living and how we can really
live our full
potential, I guess?
But beyond the potential, just
be who we are, really truly?
>>PRADERVAND: Well, I would like
to say have a clear intention.
A really clear intention.
And let nothing,
and I mean nothing
get in the way of
that intention.
It's a lot of hard work.
It's not a three
week easy to change
into a happy being
program that you
can buy for $40 on internet.
No.
It's a long, long road, and
that long road might take you
occasionally through
valleys, but there will also
be many, many heights
and many summits.
And ultimately, it's,
for me, the only road
that's worth treading.
The road towards
a world that works
for all, built on
harmony and love.
And I'm absolutely
convinced humanity
will get there one day.
I think we might have
some tremendous tsunamis,
be they economic or
ecological, but I'm
deeply convinced we
will pull through them,
and we'll create this world
that works for all one day.
>>LILOU: Thank you, Pierre, for
those wise words and words--
they're completely
connected to the heart
and connecting us all.
Thank you.
I very much appreciate
this interview,
and that you welcome us here
in this garden in Switzerland,
near Geneva, with this beautiful
sunshine, and the birds
singing, and the flowers
blooming in the spring.
Thank you so much.
>>PRADERVAND: Thank you, Lilou.
You have made a wonderful
gift to your listeners
and to myself, especially.
I'm so grateful of the new
relationship we've built up.
>>LILOU: Thank you.
And to all of you delicious
co-creators, my God,
you're pure love.
We love you.
We welcome your comments
underneath this videos,
and get the conversation going.
And his wonderful moment.
Thank you for this blessing.
Bye.
[MUSIC PLAYING]